## Problem / Question
As the sea level gradually rises due to the climate change, a lot of areas around the globe will be inundated in the near future. Specifically, island countries are especially vulnerable to the impacts of the rising ocean. Since these countries are often small in size and lack the proper resources to cope with sea level inundation, their people are likely to be displaced if their homes get flooded. Among these countries, I am particularly interested in Tuvalu, which may become the first country to disappear if we fail to mitigate climate change. With my application, I plan to predict the flooded areas under a user-input value of sea level rise. In addition, I would like to evaluate the impact the inundation on local transportation, infrastructure, and food security. The goal of the application is to provide the residents of Tuvalu a rough estimate of areas that will be flooded in the near future. As a result, this application will enable residents and even the local government to plan ahead of time and minimize the financial loss and damage caused by the inundation.
## The data
There are two sets of data I plan to use. The first set will be used to predict the flooded areas. I will calculate a baseline sea level from the tide gauge data of Tuvalu. I will then use this value along with SRTM DEMs to predict the flooded areas. The second set of data will be used to evaluate the impacts of the inundation. I will extract features of interest (roads, food-related amenities, buildings, etc.) from OpenStreetMap.
I will produce the flood prediction in ArcGIS. The resulting dataset will have 10 columns, showing whether the grid will be flooded under 1 - 10 meters of sea level rise. The dataset will also have several other columns showing the sum of road length within the grid, the number of food-related amenities, and the number of buildings, etc. The dataset will be converted to geojson and stored in GitHub.
## Technologies used
I will create the map with Mapbox and also import a 3d building layer from Mapbox. I will use jquery to access the data stored in GitHub. I will also use jquery to link a range slider to the map, so only grids that will be flooded under the chosen sea level rise value will occur. In addition, I will use jquery to link toggle switches to the map, so the color of the grids will correspond to the impact the user chooses to view (impact on transportation, food security, infrastructure, etc.). Finally, I am considering adding a range slider for weights under each type of impact. As a result, when a user chooses to view multiple impacts together, she or he will have the chance to adjust the weights and prioritize a certain type of impact in the calculation. I plan to use underscore and palette libraries to complete this calculation and create colormaps accordingly.
## Design spec
Please see the image in this folder for the design spec.
#### User experience
I assume the users would be the residents and the government of Tuvalu. Other people can also use this application to get an idea of the potential impacts of global warming on the island countries. As previously mentioned, the application will inform its users which areas will be flooded under a certain value of sea level rise. As a result, residents of Tuvalu will be able to see if they will be displaced according to where they reside. The government will know which areas will suffer the most impact from the rising ocean and plan ahead to relocate infrastructure. I can compare my application to other applications such as the sea level rise viewer developed by NOAA (https://coast.noaa.gov/slr/#/layer/slr/2/-13829030.871434277/4965528.775963139/14/satellite/70/0.8/2050/interHigh/midAccretion) and a similar app developed by the climate central (https://coastal.climatecentral.org/map/12/-73.9728/40.7085/?theme=water_level&map_type=water_level_above_mhhw&contiguous=true&elevation_model=best_available&water_level=3.0&water_unit=ft).
#### Layouts and visual design
There will be a floating side bar on the top right corner with the range slider for the sea level rise value, toggle switches for the impacts, and smaller range sliders for the weights. In addition, there will also be a dropdown menu that allow users to choose the islands they are interested in. Additionally, whenever the mouse hovers over a flooded grid cell, there should be a popup showing the number of food-related amenities, total length of road, etc. within this grid.
## Anticipated difficulties
Since I am planning to use several types of interactive features (dropdown menus, range sliders, and toggle switches), it will be challenging to deal with all the synchronous behavior. Besides, I also anticipate some difficulty to turn my data into vector tiles.
## Missing pieces
I am interested in learning more about Mapbox API since I will use it extensively in this app. I am also interested in learning how to create dashboards since I may potentially put a dashboard in this app. 
