# Final Project Proposal

### Team member: Ran Xin, Ziqun Li

## Problem / Question

Our final project is the realization of the application for our MUSA practicum project: Prioritizing fire hydrant inspection in Philadelphia.

In November 2019, Fire Commissioner Adam Thiel announced that there were [32 deaths in 2019](htts://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/local/hope-its-not-a-trend-fire-deaths-in-philadelphia-jump-in-2019-as-city-hires-more-firefighters/2168896/) alone due to fires in Philadelphia, and that this was the highest annually since 2014. Fires result in costly structural damage, and in the worst case, the loss of human life, thus a city must be prepared to fight fires, and this is contingent on working fire hydrants. At present, hydrants are inspected by the Philadelphia Fire Department (PFD) and maintained by the Philadelphia Water Department (PWD). Inspections are carried out based on engine locales by the local PFD engines in no particular order, and this results in an inefficiency of the firefighters’ time. 

### Use case
A hydrant that is more likely in need of inspection could be the last on the list, and firefighters have to take time and energy to inspect each hydrant. To address this, we propose using past data on fires and risk factors of fires to identify areas in Philadelphia where fires are more likely. Moreover, based on the modelling result for fire risk, we include about using social, population to build environment factors to extend the fire model to a prioritization to identify which hydrants are more urgent to be maintained. Taking into consideration both fire risk and hydrant maintenance, we aim to generate an App to inspect hydrants and for the PWD to maintain them. This would ensure that most hydrants are in good condition most of the time and allows firefighters to focus on a few hydrants rather than inspecting all hydrants.

To summarize, the use case for the App is:
* Prioritize inspections for local fire engines
* Improve the inspection efficiency and reduce the need to inspect good hydrants

## The data

The dataset we used is generated by our own in the “geojson” format. Our dataset used in building the App contains all hydrants in Philly as points with necessary information include:
* Basic information of each hydrant: Coordinates, ID, address, hydrant age, number of defects, engine number, neighborhood the hydrant is in
* Fire risk from the proximity
* Residential density from the proximity
* Industrial density from the proximity
* Distance to the nearest school
* Prioritization score of inspection

## Technologies used

This project plan to use the following tools:
* Mapbox js: as the base platform to load geojson datasets, we are expected to load several geojson datasets
* jQuery: ajax calls, button functions, and layer manipulations (click/hover)
* Underscore: perform manipulations including filter, popup, etc
* CSS: will heavily design the styling to improve overall visualization including dropdown menu, table


## Design spec

#### User experience

The users are mostly fire people including both firefighters and fire chief. The mechanism of the app is:
* Select engines or neighborhoods to zoom into a specific region.
* Users can choose to only check fire risk to see hydrants in high fire risk area on the map.
* Users can also check all factors to give a prioritization score.  
* After the selection, users can filter by a slider bar to see hydrants by different prioritization scores (score 1-10).


#### Layouts and visual design

We’ve already built wireframes for our app with detailed layouts and visual design, please see the wireframe images.

## Anticipated difficulties
We’ve already come up with several difficulties:
* How to manage multiple datasets through interactive manipulations.
* How to update the table including statistics when performing clicking /zooming in manipulations.
* When zooming into one region, how to change the dataset to another (for example, polygons to points)

## Missing pieces

We hope there could be more examples about the interactive performance with more focus on data visualization in HTML, and with multiple datasets. We would love to know more about Mapbox in this case.

We also confuse about how to deal with multiple CSS styles and HTML components in a well-done organization, because this App requires strong functionality and interfaces, so we wonder how to manage those codes more clearly.
